hardware/hardware.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Hardware
has_children: true
nav_order: 5
---

# Hardware 

The prototype by [Zweirat](https://zweirat-stuttgart.de/projekte/openbikesensor/) used the following:

* [ESP32](https://www.az-delivery.de/products/esp32-developmentboard) UPDATE: In the next version we will use the [30pin variant](https://de.aliexpress.com/item/32928267626.html)
* [HC-SR04P](https://www.google.com/search?q=HC-SR04P&tbm=shop) NOTE: with the new version, you should have a choice of also using the waterproof sensor [JSN-SR04T](https://de.aliexpress.com/item/32737648330.html)
* [5-pin XS9 Aviation Connector](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/32512693653.html) NOTE: could be obsolete in the next version.
* [12mm Push Button](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/4000295670163.html)
* [0.96 inch OLED Display](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/32896971385.html)
* [USB-C Charging Module](https://www.ebay.de/itm/173893903484)
* [GPS Module](https://www.ebay.de/itm/GPS-NEO-6M-7M-8M-GY-GPS6MV2-Module-Aircraft-Flight-Controller-For-Arduino/272373338855) NOTE: consider the [large antenna variant](https://de.aliexpress.com/item/1550843440.html)
* [Push Button 12mm](https://de.aliexpress.com/item/4000295670163.html)
* Plenty of wires (0.25mm^2) and heat-shrink tubing

To power the sensor you have a choice of Lithium-Iron or Lithium-Ion batteries:

* [Automatic Buck-Boost Step Up Down Module for LiPo usage](https://www.ebay.de/itm/264075497616)
* [LiIon battery](https://www.akkuparts24.de/Samsung-INR18650-25R-36V-2500mAh-Li-Ion-Zelle)

or

* [Battery-Protection-Board](https://www.ebay.de/itm/1S-Cell-18650-LiFePo4-Battery-Charger-12A-3-2V-BMS-Protection-PCB-Board-Circuit/122651145073)
* [LiFePo charging module](https://www.ebay.de/itm/MicroUSB-TP5000-3-6v-1A-Charger-Module-3-2v-LiFePO4-Lithium-Battery-Charging-/122164745507) or [alternative](https://de.aliexpress.com/item/4000310107151.html)
* [LiFePo-Battery](https://www.akkuteile.de/lifepo-akkus/18650/a123-apr18650m-a1-1100mah-3-2v-3-3v-lifepo4-akku/a-1006861/)

Li-Ion batteries are usually cheaper and have higher capacity at the same size. Lithium-Iron batteries are considered quite safe.
NOTE: It looks like most people are prefering the Li-Ion variant now. So do we in the next couple of sensors being built for testing.

Screws and nuts:
* [1x M5x35](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B078TNC9H1)
* [2x M4x30](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B01IMGZTT0)
* [7x M3x45](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B07KTBYPFP)
* [4x M2x12](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B078TQYZVX)
* [1x M2x10](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B01GQX070W)
* [1x M5 Nut](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B07961ZH1B)
* [2x M4 Nut](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B07961ZH19)
* [7x M3 Nut](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B01H8XN99A)
* [5x M2 Nut](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B01H8XN7VK)

You can consider getting slotted-head screws for the M2 ones, if you're worried about damaging the tiny Allen screws.

Commit message:

added link to current BOM list of pcb

hardware/hardware.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Hardware
has_children: true
nav_order: 5
---

# Hardware 

The [hardware list](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Friends-of-OpenBikeSensor/OpenBikeSensor_PCB_Board/blob/Mit_Verpolschutz/BOM_for%20overview_and_ordering_Rev_00.02.07.html) for the pcb version you can [find here](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/Friends-of-OpenBikeSensor/OpenBikeSensor_PCB_Board/blob/Mit_Verpolschutz/BOM_for%20overview_and_ordering_Rev_00.02.07.html)

The prototype by [Zweirat](https://zweirat-stuttgart.de/projekte/openbikesensor/) used the following:

* [ESP32](https://www.az-delivery.de/products/esp32-developmentboard) UPDATE: In the next version we will use the [30pin variant](https://de.aliexpress.com/item/32928267626.html)
* [HC-SR04P](https://www.google.com/search?q=HC-SR04P&tbm=shop) NOTE: with the new version, you should have a choice of also using the waterproof sensor [JSN-SR04T](https://de.aliexpress.com/item/32737648330.html)
* [5-pin XS9 Aviation Connector](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/32512693653.html) NOTE: could be obsolete in the next version.
* [12mm Push Button](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/4000295670163.html)
* [0.96 inch OLED Display](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/32896971385.html)
* [USB-C Charging Module](https://www.ebay.de/itm/173893903484)
* [GPS Module](https://www.ebay.de/itm/GPS-NEO-6M-7M-8M-GY-GPS6MV2-Module-Aircraft-Flight-Controller-For-Arduino/272373338855) NOTE: consider the [large antenna variant](https://de.aliexpress.com/item/1550843440.html)
* [Push Button 12mm](https://de.aliexpress.com/item/4000295670163.html)
* Plenty of wires (0.25mm^2) and heat-shrink tubing

To power the sensor you have a choice of Lithium-Iron or Lithium-Ion batteries:

* [Automatic Buck-Boost Step Up Down Module for LiPo usage](https://www.ebay.de/itm/264075497616)
* [LiIon battery](https://www.akkuparts24.de/Samsung-INR18650-25R-36V-2500mAh-Li-Ion-Zelle)

or

* [Battery-Protection-Board](https://www.ebay.de/itm/1S-Cell-18650-LiFePo4-Battery-Charger-12A-3-2V-BMS-Protection-PCB-Board-Circuit/122651145073)
* [LiFePo charging module](https://www.ebay.de/itm/MicroUSB-TP5000-3-6v-1A-Charger-Module-3-2v-LiFePO4-Lithium-Battery-Charging-/122164745507) or [alternative](https://de.aliexpress.com/item/4000310107151.html)
* [LiFePo-Battery](https://www.akkuteile.de/lifepo-akkus/18650/a123-apr18650m-a1-1100mah-3-2v-3-3v-lifepo4-akku/a-1006861/)

Li-Ion batteries are usually cheaper and have higher capacity at the same size. Lithium-Iron batteries are considered quite safe.
NOTE: It looks like most people are prefering the Li-Ion variant now. So do we in the next couple of sensors being built for testing.

Screws and nuts:
* [1x M5x35](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B078TNC9H1)
* [2x M4x30](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B01IMGZTT0)
* [7x M3x45](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B07KTBYPFP)
* [4x M2x12](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B078TQYZVX)
* [1x M2x10](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B01GQX070W)
* [1x M5 Nut](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B07961ZH1B)
* [2x M4 Nut](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B07961ZH19)
* [7x M3 Nut](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B01H8XN99A)
* [5x M2 Nut](https://www.amazon.de/gp/product/B01H8XN7VK)

You can consider getting slotted-head screws for the M2 ones, if you're worried about damaging the tiny Allen screws.
