content/docs/user-guide/quickstart.en.md, before:

---
title: Quick Start Guide
linkTitle: Quick Start
weight: 10
---

> This guide assumes that you have a working OpenBikeSensor. [If you don't, start here!]({{< ref "/docs/hardware" >}} "Hardware")

In case you might get a OpenBikeSensor, you should do some first steps.

1. Check, if your handlebar fits the OpenBikeSensor's display/button holder.
   There are basically two different kinds of handlebars: thinner ones, with a
   25,4mm diameter and the other ones, with a 31.8mm diameter. You might create
   some kind of adapter, if the device is designed for 31,8mm and you have a
   25,4mm handlebar, but the other way around is not possible
2. Measure the distance between the outer edge of the device and the end of
   your handlebar. Enter these values into the configuration options.
3. Set your privacy zones. You could probably get the GPS location with any
   digital map app. Enter these values into the configuration options.
4. Check the SD card, if it's ok and - in best case - empty.
5. Load the device's battery.
6. Turn on your device. Wait until the it has found your GPS location. This
   might take some time while we're waiting for the sattelites to connect. The
   display will exit the status screen as soon as your location is known.
   While moving it might take up to 15mins, until the devices knows where you
   are -- stand still for a faster process.
6. Put your sensor on the bike and go for a ride. Please take care about
   traffic around you and don't let the OpenBikeSensor distract you!
8. Push the button every time you're passed (no matter if it's a car or truck
   or bus or motorbike). To get some idea how often close passes occur, it's
   important to confirm every pass, not only the close ones. 
9. After your ride, switch off the device. Hold the button on the display while
   throwing the switch to ensure you don't lose any data.

Commit message:

Fixed some readability issues and added a point about uploading data to a portal.

content/docs/user-guide/quickstart.en.md, after:

---
title: Quick Start Guide
linkTitle: Quick Start
weight: 10
---

> This guide assumes that you have a working OpenBikeSensor. [If you don't, start here!]({{< ref "/docs/hardware" >}} "Hardware")

If you get an OpenBikeSensor, there are a few things you should do first.

1. Check if your handlebar fits the OpenBikeSensor's display/button holder. There are basically two different kinds of handlebars: thinner ones with a 25.4mm diameter and thicker ones with a 31.8mm diameter. You might create some kind of adapter if the device is designed for 31.8mm and you have a 25.4mm handlebar, but the other way around is not possible.
2. Measure the distance between the outer edge of the device and the end of your handlebar. Enter these values into the configuration options.
3. Set your privacy zones. You could probably get the GPS location with any digital map app. Enter these values into the configuration options.
4. Check if the SD card is ok and, in the best case, empty.
5. Load the device's battery.
6. Turn on your device and wait until it has found your GPS location. It may take some time for it to find the satellites. The display will exit the status screen as soon as your location is known. While moving, it might take up to 15 minutes until the device knows where you are. Stand still for faster results.
7. Put the sensor on your bike and go for a ride. Please be mindful of traffic, and don't let the OpenBikeSensor distract you!
8. Push the button every time you're passed (no matter if it's a car, truck, bus, or motorbike). To understand how often close passes occur, it's important to confirm every pass, not only the close ones.
9. After your ride, switch off the device. Hold the button on the display while throwing the switch to ensure you don't lose any data. 
10. You can upload your data [to a portal](https://forum.openbikesensor.org/t/uebersicht-verfuegbarer-portale/688) by creating an account, copying the API key from the profile settings into the configuration of the OpenBikeSensor, and pressing "Upload tracks" in configuration mode. You can also hold the button on the display. The device must be connected to a WLAN with internet access for the latter option.
